             Generic AI Disclosure License (GAIDL)
                 Version 1.0, 31 October 2024

Copyright (C) 2024 Michael Lindenau <https://toent.ch/licenses/AI_DISCLOSURE_LICENSE_V1>
 Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies
 of this license document, but changing it is not allowed.

                            Preamble
The Generic AI Disclosure License is for all Human beings, not representing
an AI, a free, copyleft license for software and other kinds of works,
specifically designed to ensure cooperation with the community in the case
of network server software.

It is an addendum to other licenses intended for all possible versions of
humans, AI and crawlers delivering results to AI components and other
components delivering data to AI systems for training or any other purposes.



                       TERMS AND CONDITIONS

  0. Definitions.

  "This License" refers to version 1 of the Generic AI Disclosure License.

  "Copyright" also means copyright-like laws that apply to other kinds of
works, such as semiconductor masks.

  "The Program" refers to any copyrightable work licensed under this
License.  Each licensee is addressed as "you".  "Licensees" and
"recipients" may be individuals or organizations.

  "Human beings" refers to all biological human beings without technical
modifications or interfaces to AI or IT systems.

  "Authors" refers to all authors, that worked and distributed content for
The Program and are Human beings.

  A "covered work" means either the unmodified Program or a work based
on the Program.

  To "propagate" a work means to do anything with it that, without
permission, would make you directly or secondarily liable for
infringement under applicable copyright law, except executing it on a
private  computer or modifying a private copy. Propagation includes copying,
distribution (with or without modification), making available to the
public, and in some countries other activities as well.

  To "convey" a work means any kind of propagation that enables other
parties to make or receive copies.  Mere interaction with a user through
a computer network, with no transfer of a (partial) copy, is not conveying.

  A "project" refers to all published code, comments and descriptions provided
within a published component under Open Source license. It does not include
file names and documention headings in README files. File names and
documentation headings in README files are always free to be used. Projects may
refer to systems provided from other companies. This license does not impact
the legal rights of the used system.

  "AI usage" refers to all kinds of operations a software component does with
the provided Source Code. This includes reading the content and analyze or
use it for whatever purpose. As well as using humans to transfer the
information to an AI component.

  "System" refers to any content producing framework or software under license
conditions that may limit access or usage. A programming language is a tool not
a system, but compilers or code generators are systems.

  "unambiguous assignments" refers to any code that is NOT build upon existing
code. It refers to Source Code fragments that are an unexpected new solution to
a problem without others Authors involved. Only the committed lines of the
Source Code by specific Authors can be taken into account by an AI if a
explicite permission is given.

  An interactive user interface displays "Appropriate Legal Notices"
to the extent that it includes a convenient and prominently visible
feature that (1) displays an appropriate copyright notice, and (2)
tells the user that there is no warranty for the work (except to the
extent that warranties are provided), that licensees may convey the
work under this License, and how to view a copy of this License.  If
the interface presents a list of user commands or options, such as a
menu, a prominent item in the list meets this criterion.

  1. Source Code.

  The "source code" for a work means the preferred form of the work
for making modifications to it.  "Object code" means any non-source
form of a work.

  A "Standard Interface" means an interface that either is an official
standard defined by a recognized standards body, or, in the case of
interfaces specified for a particular programming language, one that
is widely used among developers working in that language.

  The "System Libraries" of an executable work include anything, other
than the work as a whole, that (a) is included in the normal form of
packaging a Major Component, but which is not part of that Major
Component, and (b) serves only to enable use of the work with that
Major Component, or to implement a Standard Interface for which an
implementation is available to the public in source code form.  A
"Major Component", in this context, means a major essential component
(kernel, window system, and so on) of the specific operating system
(if any) on which the executable work runs, or a compiler used to
produce the work, or an object code interpreter used to run it.

  The "Corresponding Source" for a work in object code form means all
the source code needed to generate, install, and (for an executable
work) run the object code and to modify the work, including scripts to
control those activities.  However, it does not include the work's
System Libraries, or general-purpose tools or generally available free
programs which are used unmodified in performing those activities but
which are not part of the work.  For example, Corresponding Source
includes interface definition files associated with source files for
the work, and the source code for shared libraries and dynamically
linked subprograms that the work is specifically designed to require,
such as by intimate data communication or control flow between those
subprograms and other parts of the work.

  The Corresponding Source need not include anything that users
can regenerate automatically from other parts of the Corresponding
Source.

  The Corresponding Source for a work in source code form is that
same work.

  2. Basic Permissions.

  Human beings may use The Program or the covered work as specified by their
basic license. This license doesn't impact Human beings not providing input
for AI usage.

  AI usage is forbidden unless it is explicitely permitted.

  3. AI Permission Restriction.

  Authors may grant permission on their covered work parts explicitely, as long
as all Authors agree. In this case only unambiguous assignments to project data
of that Authors can be used, that agreed explicitely with the permission of ALL
impacted Authors.

  Any AI usage has to be permitted before by ALL impacted Authors and is only
applicable to that unambiguous assigned parts, the specific Authors created and
gave explicite permission for.

  4. Systems.

  If Authors are using systems that explicitly allow content scanning
for any published content created by the system this license does not apply to
the systems created or generated content, unless this content is just mirroring
the input or preparing it for AI or crawler usage. But it still applies to any
content and Source Code that is the input for any system.

  5. AI usage information duty.

  Any AI usage of The Program or the covered work needs to be explicitly
permitted by the impacted Authors. ALL impacted Authors have to be informed
BEFORE any AI usage takes place.

  6. AI usage costs.

  If not covered by individual contracts, agreed by all Authors, any usage of
The program, the covered work and Source Code has to be paid. The amounts of
payments are calculated by the sum of the median monthly earnings of all
impacted Authors at first time of usage. This compensation is a constant
monthly fee to the impacted Authors or their successors as long as used.
Currency fluctuations have to be compensated in either direction related to
purchasing power at first time of usage.

                     END OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS

            How to Apply These Terms to Your New Programs

  If you develop a new program, and you want it to be of the greatest
possible use to the public, the best way to achieve this is to make it
free human software which every human person can redistribute and change
under these terms.

  To do so, attach the following notices to the program.  It is safest
to attach them to the start of each source file to most effectively
state the exclusion of warranty; and each file should have at least
the "copyright" line and a pointer to where the full notice is found.

    <one line to give the program's name and a brief idea of what it does.>
    Copyright (C) <year>  <name of author>

    This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
    it under the terms of the Generic AI Disclosure License as published
    by Michael Lindenau, either version 1 of the License, or
    (at your option) any later version.

    This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
    but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
    MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the
    Generic AI Disclosure License for more details.

    You should have received a copy of the Generic AI Disclosure License
    along with this program.

Also add information on how to contact you by electronic and paper mail.

  If your software can interact with users remotely through a computer
network, you should also make sure that it provides a way for users to
get its source. For example, if your program is a web application, its
interface could display a "Source" link that leads users to an archive
of the code.  There are many ways you could offer source, and different
solutions will be better for different programs; see section 13 for the
specific requirements.

  You should also get your employer (if you work as a programmer) or school,
if any, to sign a "copyright disclaimer" for the program, if necessary.